In a clear state of mind, it easier to see how thoughts appear and disappear. I can feel the gaps inbetween my thoughts. The gaps are not empty, but full of potential. What is amazing is not that there are discrete thoughts and spaces in between but that in our everyday experience we are not aware of this.

The world around me appears static and persistent despite the fact that it requires my skilful sensing to understand the sensations I receive in bursts. 

This gulf between how thinking is and how our thinking appears to be is a source of continual revelation for me. One should never either underestimate the capacity for human delusion or for the increasing understanding of our awareness: there is no limit in either direction. With a deeper  understanding of how your moment-to-moment experience is formed, it becomes simpler to 'see through' when your experience sppeds up and blurs together again.

Alva Noë writes in his wonderful "Action in Perception" (p54) 'Edelamn had written, "One of the most striking things about consciousness is its continuity" (1989, 119). Dennett writes in response: "This is utterly wrong. One of the most striking features about consciousness is its discontinuity -- as revealed in the blind spot, and saccadic gaps, to take the simplest examples. The discontinuity of consciousness is striking because the _apparent_ continuity of consciousness (Daniel Dennett in "Consciousness explained" in 1991, p356).

This remark makes very clear that the wory is about the nature of experience or consciousness itself. Dennett's claim is that we are misled as to the true nature of consciousness. Consciousness is _really_ discontinuous. It _appears_ to be continuous. A paradoxical way to put the point would be: It turns out that we are mistaken in our assessment of how things seems to us [to] be. This is a skeptical proposal more radical than anything Descartes would have found intelligble'.