A couple of days ago, I went to the gym. Normally, I put my valuables — my wallet, phone and keys — in my shoes and then put these in my locker. This time, I forgot to put my shoes in my locker. When I returned, everything apart from a couple of banknotes was still there. So, someone had taken a little bit of money, but left my wallet, my bike keys (and therefore my bike) and my brand new iPhone 7+. I felt insanely grateful. Yesterday, I went to a meet-up for technology founders and came back out to find that someone had vandalised a number of bikes in the area, including mine. They had pulled out the valve from the bike so that it had a flat tire, but also not a flat tire you could mend quickly. In case this was the first phase of two phase operations to come back and steal all the broken bikes, I stored it in the co-working space where the meet-up had been held overnight. The next day I came back with a pump and some new valves. Gratifyingly, apparently, installing a new valve is just a matter of screwing it in and the valve I bought fit straight away. I pumped up the tire and everything was as good as new. Normally, I’m not that good at mending things, but this time everything just worked. I felt amazingly self-accomplished.

If someone had asked me, a week ago whether I would feel that way about someone stealing a few bank notes and vandalising my bike, I would have known for sure that that could not be true. In my experience, when I know things for sure about the future, they rarely ever turn out to be true. I’m terrible at predicting what will and won’t make me happy. When you can see your path clearly ahead of you, it’s probably not your path.

There is some interesting research on lottery wwinners and paraplegics which shows that <check out reference from Stumbling on Happiness?> most people stayed at a similar level of happiness before and after events which people know for sure will make them happier or which people know for sure will make them unhappier. The reality is stranger than the fiction we make up.

Truth is stranger than fiction because fiction has to make sense. Everyone makes up stories in their heads about what will and what won’t happen and how that will make you feel. The more seriously you take those stories, the unhappier you are likely to become. The less seriously you take those stories, the more you’ll find you have little or nothing on your mind and you’re free to go with what is right there in front of you. You reset naturally and can enjoy each moment.